---
layout: post
category : lessons
title: "Intel SGX Linux Driver Source Tour - 0"
tagline: "introduction and driver intialization"
tags : [intro, sgx]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

In this very first post, I will write about my expectation of this code tour series. Besides, I will start with a little dip of background about Intel SGX and Linux drivers.

## Introduction

To study source code can bring many benefits to engineering and research. As a user of a library or a framework, understanding how it works internally can help with reasoning about our applications. Futhermore, while studying source code, people also become more familiar with the underlying concepts. Therefore, it is also a nice companion of design documents or white papers.

This series is about Intel's Secure Guard eXtension (SGX) Linux driver. Since I am also new to SGX, I will be likely adding my findings into the posts; that is also saying, my understanding and words can both be wrong at a time, but I will fix them as soon as someone, either in my lab or from the internet, gives me feedback. Needless to say, the software itself is also under active development. I will do my best to track the change.

I will follow the execution flow of the driver when I analyze and explain the source code. After the driver finishes initilizing itself, I will explain what interface it provides for upper layers. While doing so, if I find any concept noteworthy, I will stop and spend some words on it. For example, I might be talking about how kernel modules work when I illustrate the initialization of the driver because the driver is also a kernel module.

As I said above, the SGX Linux driver is under active development, and Intel is working hard to make the driver into mainstream Linux repository. This series will, therefore, be based on the latest software at [https://github.com/jsakkine-intel/linux-sgx][1]. Although there is also an out-of-tree repository at [https://github.com/01org/linux-sgx-driver][2], its readme file indicates any contribution should be made to [the former repository][1].

## Source Files

## Interfaces

## Driver Load

[1]: https://github.com/jsakkine-intel/linux-sgx
[2]: https://github.com/01org/linux-sgx-driver